---
layout: post
title: "Size Guide"
date: 2021-04-29 01:00 +0700
categoies: jekyll update
---

Keyboards being the multifaceted tool that they are means that different people using them will demand different things from them, some people, such as GitHub user [TaranVH](https://github.com/TaranVH/2nd-keyboard), require many more keys than most need, while others like the push the boundaries of the bare minimum such as GitHub user uuupah who created the [pain27](https://github.com/uuupah/pain27), a keyboard with only the letters of the alphabet and a spacebar. Others prefer to use ergonomic keyboards to prevent RSI and other injuries that can arise from regular keyboards, one of my personal favorite of these is the [Dactyl ManuForm](https://github.com/abstracthat/dactyl-manuform). For the simplicity of this site, we will only be able to cover some of the infinite layouts that are available, as well as the pros and cons for each.

# Full-Size / 100%

The full size keyboard is the one that most people are used to seeing, it has every key on the keyboard and does not need layers to operate. Despite the fact that this is one of the most common keyboard layouts outside the custom mechanical keyboard space, it is actually one of the least common ones inside of it. For example, out of the 30+ most recently ended group buys, not a single one is for a full-size keyboard, as most people in the custom mechanical keyboard space consider the numpad to be mostly useless. Anyone who is into custom mechanical keyboards and needs a numpad can just build a separate, standalone numpad.

# 80% / TKL

The 80% / TKL layout is one of the most popular layouts in the custom mech space due to the fact that it keeps the arrow keys, function keys, etc. This keyboard sized is loved by many due to the fact that it does not sacrifice much in terms of functionality, while still saving some space (as well as some money on switches / keycaps). This keyboard is very popular among gamers as some of them do not want to sacrifice any functional keys but still want to keep mouse space. Popular examples of this keyboard are the Iron180, NK87 and the KBD8X.

# 75% Keyboards

The 75% layout is very, very similar to the TKL layout, despite this, it is one of the layouts that has the most difference in what can be considered a "75%". However, when people say 75%, they usually mean that their keyboard has the basic alphanumeric section, the function keys, the arrow keys as well as a couple keys from the nav cluster. In some 75% keyboards, this means that nearly every single key is present and that they are all in one are with no gaps, while on others there are smaller gaps. Keyboards such as the GMMK Pro, Satisfaction75 and the KBD75, all fit within this category.

# 60% Keyboards

The 60% layout the most popular form factor in the custom keyboard community, as it has the widest availabity of off the shelf parts, something that the rest of these keyboard sizes often lack. This is due to the fact that these are often more budget boards, as the cases tend to be smaller and the PCBs requiring less switches / less keycaps. This keyboard form factor is simple, it only keeps the alphanumeric section, leaving out the function keys, arrow keys, nav cluster as well as the numpad. However, an increasing amount of these keyboards replace the bottom right of the keyboard with arrow keys, as a lot of people do not use the right shift, right windows, right control and menu keys. Popular keyboards of this type are the Tofu60, Fjell and BM60 keyboards.

# 65% Keyboards

The 65% keyboard layout is becoming more and more popular these days, with a lot of people wanting the small size of a 65% keyboard while still wanting arrow keys and a couple of keys from the nav cluster, this keyboard layout is often the same as 60%, with the only difference being that there is an extra row on the right of the keyboard, that contains keys such as Delete, Pg Up, Pg Down, etc. Popular keyboards of this type are the NK65, Ikki 68 and the Anne Pro.

# 40% / 50% Keyboards

The 40% / 50% keyboards are both very similar, and these are the keyboarrds that people often consider way too small for daily use. However, they have a very niche following of people that swear by them , these keyboards are often the same as a 60% keyboard, but with the number keys on the top taken off, leaving just 4 rows on the keyboard. Oftentimes these boards are ortholinear in design, allowing users to fit more in the small space. 50% Keyboards are very similar to the 40% Keyboards but usually have a column of keys added on the left or right side for macros / other functions. Popular keyboards of this type are the Planck and the TMOv2

# Ortholinear / Ergonomic Keyboards

These keyboards oftentimes will fit in other size categories, however, they are special because they oftentimes greatly differ from the rest of keyboards and will oftentimes have a very, very nonstandard layout, with multiple layers and function keys. These keyboards are oftentimes made to provide a more natural and comfortable typing position, to avoid things like RSI. These keyboards come in many different shapes and sizes, some of them being split, some of them with angles rows and some with straight columns. Popular examples of these are the Alice, Dactyl Manuform and Ergodox EZ

# < 40$ Keyboards
Oftentimes, keyboards under this size are keyboards that are not intended for daily use, such as the afformentioned Pain27, or things like numpads and macropads, that are meant as accessories for regular sized keyboards. In the case of macropads, they are often programmed to provide more functionality to the user or act as media keys. There are hundreds of designs for these, and they vary greatly.